Harry spends the summer after the zoo incident trying to avoid Dudley and looking forward to attending a different school. While Dudley prepares for his private school, the Dursleys plan to send Harry to Stonewall High in dyed hand-me-down clothes.

One morning, a mysterious letter arrives addressed specifically to Harry in his cupboard under the stairs. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia react with panic and refuse to let him read it. They move Harry into Dudley’s second bedroom, but more letters arrive addressed to him there, proving that whoever is sending them knows exactly where he is.

The letters keep increasing despite Uncle Vernon’s efforts to stop them. He blocks the mail slot, boards up the doors, and eventually flees with the family, first to a hotel and then to a remote shack on a rock in the sea. Even there, on the night of Harry’s eleventh birthday, someone comes knocking at the door.

The visitor is Rubeus Hagrid, a giant-like man who introduces himself as Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts. He gives Harry a birthday cake and finally delivers the letter: Harry has been accepted to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Harry is stunned to learn that he is a wizard.

Hagrid angrily reveals that the Dursleys have hidden the truth from Harry for years. Harry’s parents, Lily and James Potter, were not killed in a car crash as he was told; they were murdered by the dark wizard Voldemort. Voldemort also tried to kill baby Harry, but the curse failed, leaving Harry with his lightning-shaped scar and making him famous in the wizarding world.

Harry struggles to believe he could be a wizard, but Hagrid points out the strange things that have happened around him whenever he was frightened or angry. Uncle Vernon still insists Harry will not attend Hogwarts, but Hagrid refuses to let him interfere. After Vernon insults Albus Dumbledore, Hagrid loses his temper and gives Dudley a pig’s tail with a burst of magic. Hagrid then prepares to take Harry to buy his school supplies the next day.